---
title: "How many hobbies are too many!"
date: 2023-07-18T09:03:20-08:00
summary: "reflections on turning 30 and the pursuit of personal growth and hobbies"
tags: ["health", "lifestyle"]
---

I am gonna turn 30 in six months, and for some reason, it feels like a milestone. The feeling of just getting into your middle age, not old but not young enough as well. Trust me, I feel the same or even better. I have never been this energetic, wiser, organized, or fulfilled in my life, but it turns out society dictates how you should feel and how you should act. It's hard to run away from that fact. The one thing that keeps me young is my ability and desire to pursue new challenges and activities.

Reflecting back, I didn't have the luxury to pursue what I liked. Life dictated what I should be doing. For example, I stopped drawing, painting, and arts when I turned about thirteen, just to focus on studies. I started to play Basketball, but then in 10th standard, I had to go for coaching, so had to drop that too. I could have done a lot more in my college days, but I just didn't. I chose to be a lazy addict. And the job never gave me time to pursue anything meaningful. It was always about making money, never about how happy you feel or how fulfilled you are. Hobbies are just that. They are the things you do because you want to do them without any external influence or by the motive of making money. You'd do them if you had no money, and you'd do them if you were rich. Of course, money influences hobbies. You get to pursue, try, and land what sticks with you, and this is where I am. Vigorously trying to build my hobbies. I am growing a garden, learning to play badminton, painting, and playing the keyboard. I am also into running and lifting weights, so that takes a bunch of time too.